Make the getting started page self contained (#1)
mlachkar/docs.scala-lang: _getting-started/index.md

redirect_from: "/getting-started.html"
---
## Try Scala without installing anything 

> You can try Scala, with access to all Scala compilers and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try Scala in your browser, with access to all Scala compilers and 
```
The "in your browser" is much more engaging, IMO. When looking at other languages, I really like the ability to just try out things in the browser.

> all published libraries with [Scastie](https://scastie.scala-lang.org/)

Reviewer 2: What do you think of linking to an existing snippet instead of a blank one?

Author: agree

> all published libraries with [Scastie](https://scastie.scala-lang.org/)

Reviewer: It might be nicer to point to a hello-world kind of script rather than a blank page. Just like you're importing the hello world template with `sbt new` below, I believe this makes a better intro. Starting with a blank page, a complete beginner wouldn't even know what to write down.

Or instead, suggest that the user can type in
```scala
println("Hello world!")
```
for example. At least they get *something* working.

##  Installing Scala
### Using the Scala Installer (recommended way)

> The Scala Installer based on coursier will ensure that a JVM and standard Scala tools are installed on your system.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Scala installer is a tool named `cs` that ensures that a JVM and standard Scala tools are installed on your system.  
```

> * Download coursier launcher and execute `setup` command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Download the tool `cs` and execute the command `setup`:
```

<div class="main-download">

>     <div id="download-step-one">

Reviewer 2: I think it could be useful to be able to see the setup instructions for a specific OS in addition to seeing by default the instructions for the OS of the current user. This could be addressed in a separate PR, though.

Author: ok. why not.

        <p>Follow <a href="https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-overview.html#install-native-launcher" target="_blank">the instructions to install the <code>cs</code> launcher</a> then run:</p>
        <p><code>$ ./cs setup</code></p>
    </div>
</div>

> Along with managing JVMs, it also install useful command-line tools: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Along with managing JVMs, it also installs useful command-line tools: 
```

> Ammonite, coursier, scala, scalac, sbt-launcher, scalafmt.

Reviewer 2: I would rather use the names of the actual commands (e.g., `amm`), with links to the corresponding tool documentation page.

For more information, read [couriser-cli documentation](https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-overview)

### ...Or manually
1. if you don't have java 1.8 or 11 installed, download 
Java from [Oracle Java 8](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk8-downloads.html), [
Oracle Java 11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html), 

> or [AdoptOpenJDK 8/11](https://adoptopenjdk.net/). Refer JDK Compatibility for Scala/Java compatibility detail.

Reviewer: Should "JDK Compatibility" actually be pointing to a different page? I don't know what it is.

1. Install [sbt](https://www.scala-sbt.org/download.html)

> ## Create a Hello-world project with sbt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a Hello-World Project With sbt
```

Author: since we call the project directory "hello-world", I don't know if we should or not respect the orthograph everywhere.

> ## Create a Hello-world project with sbt

Reviewer 2: Thinking more about this section, I’m actually on the fence.

I like the variety of small tutorials of the current website. They seem to address a broader audience. Here, we assume/require that people are familiar with using the command-line.

Note that for people who are not used to start a terminal and call sbt from there, it is also possible to create a Scala project using g8 templates from within IntelliJ:

![Screenshot from 2020-03-30 13-39-54](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/332812/77908952-be2f9a00-728c-11ea-89f7-4fb36320f501.png)

![Screenshot from 2020-03-30 13-40-05](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/332812/77908953-be2f9a00-728c-11ea-9c85-f8cc95602652.png)

But I see that I’m pulling too many things…! Maybe a simple solution could be to re-add the links to the other tutorials.

Sbt is a build tool for Scala. sbt compiles, runs, 
and tests your projects among other related tasks.

> 1. `cd` to an empty folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `cd` to an empty folder named `hello-world`.
```
?

You seem to ensure in the following that the folder was in fact named `hello-world`.

Author: you don't really need an empty folder.. when running sbt sbt new scala/hello-world.g8, it will ask you to name the project, and we ask them to name it hello-world (instruction number 3)

1. Run the following command `sbt new scala/hello-world.g8`.
This pulls the 'hello-world' template from GitHub.
It will also create a `target` folder, which you can ignore.
1. When prompted, name the application `hello-world`. This will
create a project called "hello-world".
1. Let's take a look at what just got generated:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to disable Scala syntax highlighting for this snippet?

- hello-world
    - project (sbt uses this to install and manage plugins and dependencies)
        - build.properties
    - src
        - main
            - scala (All of your scala code goes here)

>                 - Main.scala (Entry point of program) <-- this is all we need for now

Reviewer: Consider showing the content of `Main.scala` below. As the arrow says, this is all we need for now. It might be nice to show the content of that file.

    - build.sbt (sbt's build definition file)
```

> More documentation can be found in the [Scala Book](/overviews/scala-book/scala-build-tool-sbt.html) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More documentation about sbt can be found in the [Scala Book](/overviews/scala-book/scala-build-tool-sbt.html) 
```
?

or in the official sbt [documentation](https://www.scala-sbt.org/1.x/docs/index.html)

> ## Open Hello-world project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Open Hello-World Project
```

### Using Intellij
1. Download and install [IntelliJ Community Edition](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)

> 1. Install Scala plugin by following [the instructions on how to install IntelliJ plugins](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/managing-plugins.html)

Reviewer 2: Alternatively, instead of showing these two steps, should we show just one step? https://github.com/JetBrains/intellij-scala-bundle

Author: Didn't really understant how to use it. 
Doest it work if we already have intellij installed ?

1. Open the build.sbt file then choose *Open as a project*

### Using Vscode with metals 
1. Download [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)
1. Install the Metals extension from [the Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=scalameta.metals)

> 1. Next, open the directory containing a `build.sbt` file. The extension activates when a *.scala or *.sbt file is opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Next, open the directory containing a `build.sbt` file. When prompted to do so, select "Import build".
```
The extension activates when opening a directory containing a `build.sbt` file, in fact.

## Run Hello World

> Open a terminal

Reviewer 2: IntelliJ (and maybe Metals?) lets you run the project by just clicking on a button. In comparison, these instructions are a bit intimidating. Do you think we could include the two approaches?

Author: Most people I know prefer to run sbt than using the button "run" in intellij. It doesn't work magically with all projects, sometimes you need to configure correctly the run configuration.
I think it's better to give a solution that always works, and most projects give the "sbt" solution rather than the "run button on intellij". 
I tried on metals too, the run button doesn't work without any configuration.

Reviewer 2: I understand, and I’m one of those who use sbt to run my programs. Not because I prefer doing that, though, but because it doesn’t always work with IntelliJ, as you said.

However, for this getting started example it should work (I didn’t check, though), I think it’s better to show a simpler getting started experience. Then people can learn about sbt when they start working on bigger projects.

1. `cd` into `hello-world`.
1. Run `sbt`. This will open up the sbt console.
1. Type `~run`. The `~` is optional and causes sbt to re-run on every file save,
allowing for a fast edit/run/debug cycle. sbt will also generate a `target` directory
which you can ignore.

## Next Steps
Once you've finished these tutorials, check out:

* [The Scala Book](/overviews/scala-book/introduction.html), which provides a set of short lessons introducing Scala’s main features.
* [The Tour of Scala](/tour/tour-of-scala.html) for bite-sized introductions to Scala's features.
* [Learning Resources](/learn.html), which includes online interactive tutorials and courses.
* [Our list of some popular Scala books](/books.html).

## Getting Help
There are a multitude of mailing lists and real-time chat channels in case you want to quickly connect with other Scala users. Check out our [community](https://scala-lang.org/community/) page for a list of these resources, and for where to reach out for help.

<!-- Hidden elements whose content are used to provide OS-specific download instructions.
 -- This is handled in `resources/js/functions.js`.

>  -->

Reviewer: If we're going to need this on two different pages, we should consolidate in an `_includes` file.

Author: How ? it's two different repos

    
<div style="display:none" id="stepOne-linux">

>        <code class="hljs">$ curl -Lo cs https://git.io/coursier-cli-linux && chmod +x cs && ./cs setup </code> <br>

Reviewer 2: Where should this command be invoked from? What do we do with the file `cs` after the `setup` command is completed? Should we keep it?

Author: I don't know what to say about that... you can run it from everywhere, and you can delete it at the end, or keep it..

</div>
 
<div style="display:none" id="stepOne-unix">
    <p>Follow <a href="https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-overview.html#install-native-launcher" target="_blank">the instructions to install the <code>cs</code> launcher</a> then run:</p>
    <p><code>$ ./cs setup</code></p>
</div>
 
<div style="display:none" id="stepOne-osx">
    <div class="highlight">
        <code class="hljs">$ curl -Lo cs https://git.io/coursier-cli-macos && chmod +x cs &&  (xattr -d com.apple.quarantine cs || true) && ./cs  setup </code> <br>
    </div>
    <p>Alternatively you can use Homebrew:</p>
        <div class="highlight">
            <code class="hljs">$ brew install coursier/formulas/coursier && cs setup </code> <br>

>         </div>

Reviewer 2: I’m not familiar with homebrew but the instructions look simpler. Should we put them first?

Author: Good idea. I kept the same order that we can found in coursier-cli install page
